What is Git?

Your answer was close.

Better Answer

Git is a distributed version control system used to track source code changes. It helps multiple developers work on the same project, maintain code history, and manage versions of the application.

Project-Based Answer

In my project, we use Git to manage source code, track changes, maintain version history, and collaborate with developers.

10. Difference Between Git and GitHub?
Answer
Git	GitHub
Version Control System	Repository Hosting Platform
Installed on local machine	Cloud-based service
Tracks code changes	Stores Git repositories
Used for commit, branch, merge	Used for collaboration and Pull Requests
Interview Answer

Git is a version control system used to track source code changes, whereas GitHub is a cloud platform used to host and manage Git repositories.

11. Explain Git Commands
git clone
git clone <repository-url>

Used to copy a remote repository to the local machine.

git pull
git pull

Used to download the latest changes from the remote repository to the local repository.

Easy Remember

Remote → Local
git push
git push

Used to upload local changes to the remote repository.

Easy Remember

Local → Remote
git commit
git commit -m "message"

Used to save changes in the local repository with a message.

Example:

git commit -m "Added deployment changes"
Full Flow
git clone
git checkout -b feature
make changes
git add .
git commit -m "changes"
git push
create PR
12. What is a Pull Request (PR)?

Your answer:

When we merge to main branch then we create PR.

Small correction:

Correct Answer

A Pull Request is a request to merge code changes from one branch to another branch. Before merging, team members review the code, provide comments, and approve the changes.

Example
feature branch
      ↓
Pull Request
      ↓
Code Review
      ↓
Approval
      ↓
main branch
Project-Based Answer

In my project, developers create feature branches and make code changes. After testing, they raise a Pull Request to merge changes into the main branch. The code is reviewed and approved before merging.

Quick Interview Round

Q: What is the difference between git pull and git push?

A:

git pull downloads changes from remote to local, whereas git push uploads local changes to the remote repository.

Q: Why do we use Pull Requests?

A:

To perform code reviews, maintain code quality, and control code changes before merging into the main branch.
